Identity and attest key triples rewording (#135)
ietf-rats-wg/draft-ietf-rats-corim: draft-ietf-rats-corim.md

##### Crypto Keys {#sec-crypto-keys}

> A `$crypto-key-type-choice` statement identifies a cryptogrpahic key.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A `$crypto-key-type-choice` statement identifies a cryptographic key.
```

> A `$crypto-key-type-choice` statement identifies a cryptographic key.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A `$crypto-key-type-choice` identifies a cryptographic key.
```

There are several possible formats.

> The usage context helps determine how Verifiers process each varient.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The usage context helps determine how Verifiers process each variant.
```

For example, as a Reference Value, the Verifier applies an Evidence matching algorithm.
As an identity triple, the Verifier may need to obtain a suitable credential to authenticate the Attester.

> Additionally, the deploymnet context may add new processing requirements, such as, proof of possession checking,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Additionally, the deployment context may add new processing requirements, such as, proof of possession checking,
```

credential status checking, or distribution of various processing steps.
For example, in a split Verifier scenario, a first Verifier may challenge the key to sign a nonce
then compute a digest of the public key that is forwarded to a second Verifier.
The second Verifier completes verification by locating the certificate,

> performing certificate path validation, revocation, and trust anchor checks.

Reviewer 2: I'd drop this para entirely as it introduces too much variability without effectively specifying any particular behaviour.  Either that or leave just the bare minimum, i.e.: _"Additionally, the deployment context may add further processing requirements.  These are outside the scope of the present specification."_

#### Device Identity Triple {#sec-comid-triple-identity}

A Device Identity triple record relates one or more cryptographic keys to a device identity.
The cryptographic keys are bound to or associated with a Target Environment that is within the device.
The device identifier may be part of the Target Environment's `environment-map` or may be part of some other device identity credential, such as a certificate.
The cryptographic keys are expected to be used to authenticate the device.

Device Identity triples instruct a Verifier to perform key validation checks, such as revocation, certificate path construction & verification, or proof of possession.
The Verifier SHOULD perform offline verification of keys contained in Device Identity triples.

A Device Identity triple endorses that the keys were securely provisioned to the named Target Environment.

> Additional details about how a key was provisioned or is protected may be asserted using Endorsements such as  `endorsed-triples`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Additional details about how a key was provisioned or is protected may be asserted using Endorsements such as `endorsed-triples`.
```

Depending on key formatting, as defined by `$crypto-key-type-choice`, the Verifier may take different steps to locate and verify the key.

> If a key has usage restrictions that limit its use to device identity challenges, Verifiers SHOULD check for key use that violates usage restrictions.

Reviewer 4: Is this the only key use limitation that should imply key usage checks? What key usage is associated with device identity challenges? Non-repudiation? I'm only considering x.509 key usage OIDs here. What else could you be referring to?

Author: DICE and SPDM have additional key usage constraints.

> Offline verification of keys or verification of key use restrictions MAY produce Claims that are added to the ACS.

Reviewer 4: We already know that a Verifier can add claims of whatever sort. What measurement-value-map code point are you talking about for these? If there is nothing specific, I think this is too vague to be a useful addition.

Alternatively, Verifiers MAY report key verification results as part of an error reporting function.

~~~ cddl
{::include cddl/identity-triple-record.cddl}
~~~

#### Attest Key Triple {#sec-comid-triple-attest-key}

An Attest Key triple record relates one or more cryptographic keys to an Attesting Environment.
The cryptographic keys are wielded by an Attesting Environment that collects measurements from a Target Environment.
The cryptographic keys sign Evidence.
Attest Key triples instruct a Verifier to perform key validation checks, such as revocation, certificate path construction & verification, or proof of possession.
The Verifier SHOULD perform offline verification of keys contained in Attest Key triples.

> Attest Key triples endorse that the keys were securely provisioned to the named (identified via an Environment Map) Attesting Environment.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Attest Key triples endorse that the keys were securely provisioned to the named (identified via an `environment-map`) Attesting Environment.
```

The type is used throughout the document. I don't see capitalized usage.

> Additional details about how a key was provisioned or is protected may be asserted using Endorsements such as  `endorsed-triples`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Additional details about how a key was provisioned or is protected may be asserted using Endorsements such as `endorsed-triples`.
```

Depending on key formatting, as defined by `$crypto-key-type-choice`, the Verifier may take different steps to locate and verify the key.

If a key has usage restrictions that limit its use to device identity challenges, Verifiers SHOULD check for key use that violates usage restrictions.

Offline verification of keys or verification of key use restrictions MAY produce Claims that are added to the ACS.
Alternatively, Verifiers MAY report key verification results as part of an error reporting function.

~~~ cddl
{::include cddl/identity-triple-record.cddl}
~~~

#### Attest Key Triple {#sec-comid-triple-attest-key}

An Attest Key triple record relates one or more cryptographic keys to an Attesting Environment.
The cryptographic keys are wielded by an Attesting Environment that collects measurements from a Target Environment.
The cryptographic keys sign Evidence.
Attest Key triples instruct a Verifier to perform key validation checks, such as revocation, certificate path construction & verification, or proof of possession.
The Verifier SHOULD perform offline verification of keys contained in Attest Key triples.

> Attest Key triples endorse that the keys were securely provisioned to the named Attesting Environment.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Attest Key triples endorse that the keys were securely provisioned to the named (identified via an Environment Map) Attesting Environment.
```

Additional details about how a key was provisioned or is protected may be asserted using Endorsements such as  `endorsed-triples`.

Depending on key formatting, as defined by `$crypto-key-type-choice`, the Verifier may take different steps to locate and verify the key.

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

#### Device Identity Triple {#sec-comid-triple-identity}

A Device Identity triple record relates one or more cryptographic keys to a device identity.
The cryptographic keys are bound to or associated with a Target Environment that is within the device.
The device identifier may be part of the Target Environment's `environment-map` or may be part of some other device identity credential, such as a certificate.
The cryptographic keys are expected to be used to authenticate the device.

Device Identity triples instruct a Verifier to perform key validation checks, such as revocation, certificate path construction & verification, or proof of possession.
The Verifier SHOULD perform offline verification of keys contained in Device Identity triples.

> When Device Identity triples are contained in a CoRIM, it endorses that the keys were securely provisioned to the named Target Environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Device Identity triple endorses that the keys were securely provisioned to the named Target Environment.
```

> Additional details about how a key was provisioned or is protected may be asserted using Endorsements such as  `endorsed-triples`.

Reviewer 2: Should we say how? Or, if we do already, reference the place(s) that contain the relevant text.

Reviewer 5: Let's move that issue to -08

Depending on key formatting, as defined by `$crypto-key-type-choice`, the Verifier may take different steps to locate and verify the key.

> If a key has usage restrictions that limits its use to device identity challenges, Verifiers SHOULD check for key use that violates usage restrictions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If a key has usage restrictions that limit its use to device identity challenges, Verifiers SHOULD check for key use that violates usage restrictions.
```

Offline verification of keys or verification of key use restrictions MAY produce Claims that are added to the ACS.
Alternatively, Verifiers MAY report key verification results as part of an error reporting function.

~~~ cddl
{::include cddl/identity-triple-record.cddl}
~~~

#### Attest Key Triple {#sec-comid-triple-attest-key}

An Attest Key triple record relates one or more cryptographic keys to an Attesting Environment.
The cryptographic keys are wielded by an Attesting Environment that collects measurements from a Target Environment.
The cryptographic keys sign Evidence.

> 

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```
Co-authored-by: Ned Smith <nedmsmith@users.noreply.github.com>
nedmsmith

Attest Key triples instruct a Verifier to perform key validation checks, such as revocation, certificate path construction & verification, or proof of possession.

> The Verifier SHOULD perform offline verification of keys contained in Attest Key triples.

Reviewer 2: Isn't this a MUST?  The overall security of the system depends on being able to validate evidence's signatures.

Author: If the verifier decides not to do the check and therefore doesn't add a claim containing the verification results claim and the RP expects to find the claim, then the RP applies the enforcement decision and likely doesn't grant access to the resource requested by the Attester. This approach would not force the verifier into becoming an enforcement point if a deployment architecture didn't want that.

Reviewer 5: I am not convinced that your argument justifies a SHOULD, but for the sake of the cut-off, this is good enough for now.

> When Attest Key triples are contained in a CoRIM, it endorses that the keys were securely provisioned to the named Attesting Environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Attest Key triples endorse that the keys were securely provisioned to the named Attesting Environment.
```

> Additional details about how a key was provisioned or is protected may be asserted using Endorsements such as  `endorsed-triples`.

Reviewer 2: ditto (symmetric to identity keys)

Author: I'm confused what action to take?

Reviewer 5: If there should be additional symmetric text about identity key, that goes into -08

Depending on key formatting, as defined by `$crypto-key-type-choice`, the Verifier may take different steps to locate and verify the key.

> If a key has usage restrictions that limits its use to Evidence signing, Verifiers SHOULD check for key use that violates usage restrictions.

Reviewer 2: To me this too is a MUST.

Author: See answer to the previous question about MUST

#### Device Identity Triple {#sec-comid-triple-identity}

A Device Identity triple relates one or more cryptographic keys to a device.

> The triple subject is an identity used to name a device.

Reviewer 2: Just a nit: maybe we could add a sentence to clarify the distinction between DI and AK triples?

Author: > Just a nit: maybe we could add a sentence to clarify the distinction between DI and AK triples?

see suggested text at line 1158

The triple object is an array of cryptographic key(s) used to authenticate the device.
The predicate asserts that any of the key(s) (found in the triple object) can be used to authenticate the device.

If contained in a CoRIM, this triple endorses that the key(s) were provisioned to the Target Environment.

> If contained in Evidence, this triple asserts that the key(s) are present in the Target Environment.

Reviewer 2: This sentence should be in the Concise Evidence spec rather than here.

The Verifier SHOULD attempt to verify the status and validity of the key(s).

Depending on which `$crypto-key-type-choice` form is supplied, the Verifier may
need to take different steps to locate or verify the key.

~~~ cddl
{::include cddl/identity-triple-record.cddl}
~~~

#### Attestation Keys Triple {#sec-comid-triple-attest-key}

An Attestation Keys triple relates one or more cryptographic keys to an Attesting Environment.
The attest key triple subject identifies an Attesting Environment
whose object is an array of cryptographic key(s) used to attest Evidence.
The predicate asserts that any of the key(s) (found in the triple object) can be used to attest Evidence.

If contained in a CoRIM, this triple endorses that the key(s) were provisioned to the Attesting Environment.

> If contained in Evidence, this triple asserts that the key(s) are present in the Attesting Environment.

Reviewer 2: This sentence should be in the Concise Evidence spec rather than here.

Author: > This sentence should be in the Concise Evidence spec rather than here.

When a claim is added to the ACS, the semantics of the claim are asserted by the verifier. This specification should capture these semantics. If another spec defines evidence that is mapped into this schema. The mapping expects the semantics are the same since mapping different semantics can be challenging. Stating it here ensures the other evidence forms are semantically similar/same.

#### Device Identity Triple {#sec-comid-triple-identity}

A Device Identity triple relates one or more cryptographic keys to a device.
The triple subject is an identity used to name a device.
The triple object is an array of cryptographic key(s) used to authenticate the device.
The predicate asserts that any of the key(s) (found in the triple object) can be used to authenticate the device.

If contained in a CoRIM, this triple endorses that the key(s) were provisioned to the Target Environment.

If contained in Evidence, this triple asserts that the key(s) are present in the Target Environment.

> The Verifier SHOULD attempt to verify the status and validity of the key(s).

Author: ```suggestion
The Verifier SHOULD perform offline verification of the key(s).
```

Depending on which `$crypto-key-type-choice` form is supplied, the Verifier may
need to take different steps to locate or verify the key.

~~~ cddl
{::include cddl/identity-triple-record.cddl}
~~~

#### Attestation Keys Triple {#sec-comid-triple-attest-key}

An Attestation Keys triple relates one or more cryptographic keys to an Attesting Environment.
The attest key triple subject identifies an Attesting Environment

> whose object is an array of cryptographic key(s) used to attest Evidence.

Reviewer: attest the Evidence on line 1147 is confusing and not really ties to any Cryptographic operation.

> The attest key triple subject identifies an Attesting Environment
> whose object is an array of cryptographic key(s) used to attest Evidence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The attest key triple subject identifies an Attesting Environment whose object
is an array of of cryptographic keys used to validate the Integrity of Evidence.
```

> whose object is an array of cryptographic key(s) used to attest Evidence.

Author: ```suggestion
whose object is an array of cryptographic key(s) used to verify the integrity of Evidence.
```

> The predicate asserts that any of the key(s) (found in the triple object) can be used to attest Evidence.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The predicate asserts that any of the key(s) (found in the triple object) can be used to Validate integrity of Evidence.
```

If contained in a CoRIM, this triple endorses that the key(s) were provisioned to the Attesting Environment.

If contained in Evidence, this triple asserts that the key(s) are present in the Attesting Environment.

> The Verifier SHOULD attempt to verify the status and validity of the key(s).

Author: ```suggestion
The Verifier SHOULD perform offline verification of the key(s).
```

Depending on which `$crypto-key-type-choice` form is supplied, the Verifier may
need to take different steps to locate or verify the key.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
Note: some keys can only be used for attestation purposes, hence should not be mistaken for a device identities.
```

The Verifier SHOULD perform offline verification of the key(s).

The subject of an identity triple uses an instance or class identifier to refer
to a device, and a cryptographic key is the object. The predicate asserts that
at least one of the keys, as defined by `$crypto-key-type-choice`, authenticates the Attester.

Depending on which `$crypto-key-type-choice` form is supplied, the Verifier may
need to take different steps to locate or verify the key.

~~~ cddl
{::include cddl/identity-triple-record.cddl}
~~~

#### Attestation Keys Triple {#sec-comid-triple-attest-key}

An Attestation Keys triple relates one or more cryptographic keys to an Attesting Environment.
The attest key triple subject identifies an Attesting Environment whose object
is an array of cryptographic keys used to validate the integrity of Evidence.
The predicate asserts that any of the key(s) (found in the triple object) can be used to validate integrity of Evidence.

If contained in a CoRIM, this triple endorses that the key(s) were provisioned to the Attesting Environment.

If contained in Evidence, this triple asserts that the key(s) are present in the Attesting Environment.

> The Verifier SHOULD perform offline verification of the key(s).

Reviewer: The statement seems ambiguous to me? Can you please clarify what does it means? Did you mean CRL checking or something ?

An Attestation Keys triple relates one or more cryptographic keys to an

> Attesting Environment. The attest key triple subject is an Attesting

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Attesting Environment. The attest key triple subject is an Attesting
Environment whose object is one or more cryptographic keys.
```

#### Device Identity Triple {#sec-comid-triple-identity}

A Device Identity triple relates one or more cryptographic keys to a device.
The triple subject is an identity used to name a device.
The triple object is an array of cryptographic key(s) used to authenticate the device.
The predicate asserts that any of the key(s) (found in the triple object) can be used to authenticate the device.

If contained in a CoRIM, this triple endorses that the key(s) were provisioned to the Target Environment.

> 
> If contained in Evidence, this triple asserts that the key(s) are present in the Target Environment.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

#### Device Identity Triple {#sec-comid-triple-identity}

A Device Identity triple relates one or more cryptographic keys to a device.
The triple subject is an identity used to name a device.
The triple object is an array of cryptographic key(s) used to authenticate the device.
The predicate asserts that any of the key(s) (found in the triple object) can be used to authenticate the device.

If contained in a CoRIM, this triple endorses that the key(s) were provisioned to the Target Environment.

> The Verifier SHOULD perform offline verification of the key(s).

Reviewer 4: What is the significance of the "offline" qualification?

The subject of an identity triple uses an instance or class identifier to refer
to a device, and a cryptographic key is the object. The predicate asserts that

> at least one of the keys, as defined by `$crypto-key-type-choice`, authenticates the Attester.

Reviewer 4: Remove line break without new sentence.

Depending on which `$crypto-key-type-choice` form is supplied, the Verifier may

> need to take different steps to locate or verify the key.

Reviewer 4: Remove line break without new sentence.

~~~ cddl
{::include cddl/identity-triple-record.cddl}
~~~

#### Attestation Keys Triple {#sec-comid-triple-attest-key}

An Attestation Keys triple relates one or more cryptographic keys to an Attesting Environment.
The attest key triple subject identifies an Attesting Environment whose object

> is an array of cryptographic keys used to validate the integrity of Evidence.

Reviewer 4: Remove line break without new sentence

The predicate asserts that any of the key(s) (found in the triple object) can be used to validate integrity of Evidence.

If contained in a CoRIM, this triple endorses that the key(s) were provisioned to the Attesting Environment.

> If contained in Evidence, this triple asserts that the key(s) are present in the Attesting Environment.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

The Verifier SHOULD perform offline verification of the key(s).

An Attestation Keys triple relates one or more cryptographic keys to an
Attesting Environment. The attest key triple subject is an Attesting
Environment whose object is one or more cryptographic keys.
The predicate asserts that the Attesting Environment integrity protects Evidence using at least one of the keys.

> Depending on which `$crypto-key-type-choice` form is supplied, the Verifier may

Reviewer 4: Remove line break without new sentence

#### Device Identity Triple {#sec-comid-triple-identity}

A Device Identity triple relates one or more cryptographic keys to a device.
The subject of an identity triple uses an instance or class identifier to refer
to a device, and a cryptographic key is the object. The predicate asserts that

> at least one of the keys, as defined by `$crypto-key-type-choice`, authenticates the Attester.

Reviewer 2: > at least one of the keys, as defined by `$crypto-key-type-choice`, authenticates the Attester

Should it be renamed to "Attester Identity Triple" then?

Reviewer: Here device is the application layer concept that is been mapped to a `Environment` for encoding.

Perhaps, we can clarify better that the Device Identifier, either class of Device or specific Device instance, is expressed in the Environment in the subject of the triple

Reviewer 2: @nedmsmith to wordsmith this

### Matching Evidence against Reference Values

An Endorser may use CoMID tags to publish Conditional Endorsements, which
are added to the Accepted Claims Set only if specified conditions apply.
This section describes the process performed by the Verifier to determine
which Conditional Endorsements from the candidate CoMIDs should be added
to the Accepted Claims Set.

> 

Reviewer: If I am not mistaken, I guess this section is already merged ?
